[Applause]
[Music]
today I want to show you guys a tool
that is I think going to majorly change
the game for small farmers this is the
paper pot transplanter and my mind is
totally blown by this thing I've had it
for about a month now and I've been
doing demos with it and kind of figuring
out the the quirks with it the nuances
the adjustments and all that and this
tool is this major major game changer on
our farm it's turning an hour of work
into minutes so I'm going to transplant
a bed of basil right now I transplant
basil at 6 inch centers so four rows in
the bed six inches apart it's the same
way I do lettuce and I'm actually going
to do some more lettuce after this as
well but I just want to show you guys
how quick this thing can get a job done
that would take an hour so it normally
takes an hour for one of our guys to pop
out the plugs transplant at this density
in a 50 foot bed I'm going to do it with
this paper pot transplanter and it's
going to be it's going to greatly reduce
that time I'm not exactly sure how long
it's going to take but I'll show you and
you can check it out this tool uses
special flats there are 11 inches by 22
inches so they're a little bit bigger
than your standard 1020 flat but they
work with a paper chain that is like an
accordion style stretched out in the
flat and filled up with soil you use
this little plate thing to get the flat
started and basically how this works is
it unravels itself into the soil and so
you push this thing underneath it and
that makes it sort of like a ramp that
the paper chains will unravel from until
you get your first one going
this little piece is just garbage I use
I keep some landscape pins down here so
you start it off the first few feet of a
bed you'll have to come back and bury in
that's just because I have lots of stuff
right at the end of my bed but if you
had long beds with lots of space at the
end it wouldn't be a problem this is one
of the challenges I have in the urban
setting so once you get our going start
and so it's digging a trench and it's
closing it up as you go
so that took seven minutes and I'm still
not perfect at this I had to stop a few
times and just dig it back in like for
example your beginning rose you know you
just want to bury in a little bit
because you're not starting with the the
trench is deep so you just go and plug
those in but if you just do the math
think about this
so I plant about 60 beds of Sally Nova
lettuce a year that's the exact same as
this one and it takes us an hour each
bed so that's popping out the plugs
plants in the min and all that if I can
do that in seven minutes that means so
normally one one bed an hour 60 beds is
60 hours if I make that seven minutes at
that same amount of beds that's seven
hours so I'm saving 53 hours a year a
season on that one crop so you might do
all kinds of stuff I think for a normal
farm that's doing a variety of
transplants you're going to save
probably 300 hours a year
that's insane like even if that's $10 an
hour labor that's $3,000 that you're
going to save a season huge because
that's around the price that this tool
costs to get so amortize that over years
I mean the savings is massive I know
some farms have reduced a whole day a
week of work because of this tool
they've eliminated you know one or two
for jobs to you know have more time on
their farm or well however you want to
stock it it's incredible
I'm going to do some more planting okay
you put your flat on the tray
I always kind of push the greens back a
little bit here stick this in kind of
slice it along the side get it in and
then you just kind of wiggle it under
push it get your first paper chain which
is this guy here
when I'm doing four rows I pretty much
line up my wheel to the mound of the
trench from the last row
all right so with this thing you've got
this different way of planting and you
use it it's all new gear so you've got
different kinds of flaps this is a 11 by
22 inch flat at the specialty flat these
are amazing plots actually they're super
super strong and I know somebody's going
to ask hey Curtis can I use this from
microgreen absolutely you can I've been
starting to do it they're amazing they
certainly cost more than your standard
1020 flat and you know how flimsy these
are and they break like nothing these
flaps are like crazy crazy robust they
probably last you a lifetime anyway that
aside this is what you have to use some
of the paper chains so you have this
thing called a spreader flank frame and
you get here your paper chain they come
like this and you have these special
arms that will separate the chain for
you so you take these
spreader pieces this all comes with a
kit that comes with the spreader frames
these guys and the drop seater and the
Dib ler which I'll show you in a minute
so you spread your paper pot
/ your spreader frame and it kind of
hooks it in like that and then now you
can slide these out and that stays in
place now you take your flat and you put
your flat over top flip it over and now
you're ready to fill it with soil
I'm using a soil mix just like I always
do events weddings down got a little bit
of sifted compost in it a little bit of
fertilizer this is really no different
than filling any flat so there you got
it filled they give you this brush and
the purpose of this brush is to make a
nice flat surface so that you can see
the sort of the honeycomb pattern in the
flat which is important when you put the
dip ler in it which is will allow you to
get your seeds lined up perfectly to the
planting then you take this tools called
the Dib ler and it's the same for every
flat so there's there are a bunch of
different sizes of paper pots and they
basically represent the distance of
space in the ground the ones I'm
planting right now are called 303 15
that 15 represents 15 centimeters which
is 6 inches and then we've got 303 and a
10 so the 303 is 2 inches apart and the
303 10 is 10 centimeters just forages
apart but they're all the same in the
flap so you take your Dib ler get a bit
more light there
and then that diddler just makes the
holes that you're going to drop your
seeds into
now this is the drop cedar it works
similar to a vacuum cedar but there's
two plates that line up with each other
and then when they do they drop the seat
so I've got some seeds down below
there's all salan overseas I'm just
going to spread it around make sure that
one seed falls into each hole and we
have different sized drop Cedars as well
for different sized feeds so I think
we've got two different sizes two or
three different sizes worth carrying
right now so you just line it up to
those holes
did it give a couple tops there's any
seed that gets a little stuck in there
[Music]
so I cover up with a little bit of
vermiculite
so once the soils in there you can now
take the spreader frame out and then
that's a plant is flat so that's the
people part transplanter in a nutshell
all the gears you need we have a kit
that we're selling on the website so
it's a sort of a starter pack at 3,000
bucks if you're just starting out with
it and you don't know exactly what you
need
just get that we've given enough variety
of stuff in there that you can do a
bunch of different types of transplants
with it that's what I got that's what I
started with and it's works fine for me
so far so paper panco
that's diego boudoir and eyes new
enterprise check it out we'll see you
guys later
[Music]